we have a team of correspondents
deployed across the region Stephanie DEA
is in Israel very close to the Border
fence with Gaza Muhammad Jam Jun is in
occupied East Jerusalem but we start
inside Gaza with TK Abu AUM and TK we
understand Israel has agreed to a US
request to turn the water back on to
parts of Southern Gaza as far as you
know has that happened
yet well it has not yet been confirmed
that the Israeli occupation authorities
have provided a Gaza strap with water
sources uh no official uh Source had
claimed that or even state that to
Palestinian people uh the Palestinian
inside the Gaza Strip are still
suffering from a a sharp shortage of
water sources they are struggling to
find water access on daily basis they
every day get up early walk to uh
residential uh residential buildings or
try to ask people to uh to give each
other water they go to United Nations
affiliation Affiliated schools they also
are are trying to afford for them a
proper for supplies despite the great
shortage that the Palestinian Market is
really witnessing due to the massive
consumption of Food Supplies inside Gaza
stro also the blackout of electricity
inside Gaza is a main factor that uh
even providing water to the Gaza Strip
won't be enough simply because without
electricity gazans won't be able to fill
the the water tanks so uh with the black
with the ongoing black out of
electricity inside Gaza uh the
humanitarian crisis inside the Gaza
Strip will continue and will deteriorate
more and throughout all of this uh TK
the Israeli bombardment has continued
today
again well yes uh the is the Israeli
occupation air forces are resuming their
attacks on the Gaza Strip different
areas in the Gaza Strip were hit by the
Israeli air strikes our Medical Teams
here inside the human the Naser hospital
as we are right now standing are trying
to do their best in order to provide
different kinds of treatment to
Palestinian injured people we're talking
about one of the areas that had been
recommended to evacuate to by the
Israeli occupation authorities meanwhile
this time medical team's family members
become the target of the Israeli air
strikes in this hospital here right now
in khuna city today a very shocking
event took place one of the doctors who
is working inside the hospital as he was
doing his job and providing a treatment
to different injured people due to the
Israeli strikes he found out that one of
the victims was his uh son and different
members of his family were critically
wounded due to the Israeli ongoing
strike so what we can witness right now
inside the Gaza Strip is considered to
be a collective punishment for more than
2.3 million
Palestinians okay thank you so much TK
we really do appreciate uh you bringing
us continued coverage from with inside
Gaza that is TK Abu
AO we're joining us by phone from
Southern Gaza is Muhammad Abu mhib
Deputy medical coordinator with Doctors
Without Borders thank you very much uh
for for taking time to talk to us here
on elazer now from what I understand
you've been displaced uh to the South
where you are now but you're not able to
work for Doctors Without Borders
anymore uh to be I mean clear no one we
are not able to function anymore I mean
really we are let's say we are not able
to provide any support any medical
services to the patients that we are
following so more than 1,000 patients
with burn we are not able to reach them
they are not able to reach us the the
medical staff are not able to access our
uh facilities our our facilities are
closed I mean the only thing that we
managed today is to uh donate the rest
of the medical uh disposable drugs that
we have in our uh stores to to the
hospital mainly to sh hospital and is it
duud to safety concerns that you're not
able to operate
anymore sorry is it because of safety
concerns that you're not able to operate
anymore I mean there's no movement I
mean people are displaced I mean me
personally I was theed I was asked to
the place to to leave Gaza City and to
find uh according to the Israeli like to
go to the south of the city so it's it's
all the medical most of the medical
stuff that we have they took their
families to find shelters in the south I
mean people are Sheltering even in the
hospitals I mean I mean the hospitals
are no more hospitals they are shelters
and full of dead body you can feel the
smell of the body in all the hospitals
of Gaza I'm not speaking about cha in
the middle Area Hospital in South N
Hospital you can smell the the the smell
of bodies you can smell I mean the the
sewage system is not functioning anymore
uh people are uh standing in cues to use
the uh the tolet of the hospitals I mean
it's it's chaotic a lot of medical stuff
are not able to come to the hospital to
support I mean sometimes the a the
surgical operations are only done by the
surgeon himself and anesthesia doctor so
there's no more nurses in the in the in
the operating room it's a matter of
access people are not feeling safe I
mean at all to go to the hospital they
are trying to find place to shelter and
stay alive to find food to find
drinkable water which is a a big a big
issue now in in all Gaza STP no
drinkable water I did just want to ask
you about the water because we've just
heard that uh Israel has agreed to a US
request to turn the water back on in
parts of Southern Gaza but to your
knowledge that hasn't happened yet not
yet I mean until until today at morning
me personally I was searching for
drinkable water to to have to have
drinkable water there's no drinkable
water I mean I heard this the news that
they will open the water supply again
isra will open the
uh but nothing on the ground yet we
didn't feel it okay the main constraint
for the population now what I see and
not a witness is the drinkable water
food and finding shelters there is no
shelter they are asking the people to
leave Gaza City and the North to the
South but there is no space in the sou
people are sleeping in the streets now
yeah as as a doctor who I imagine has
worked in uh some horrendous situations
how does this compare especially when
you're not seemingly able to do anything
when clearly there are so many people in
need I mean uh I mean people are calling
me for help medical so the only thing I
give them medical advice on phones uh I
mean that's what I could do or address
them to the office still we have one of
our uh security staff member who's still
in the office in Gaza City I'm I'm
addressing people to go there to pick
sometime medical supplies dressing kits
uh for for their wounds I mean there's
no one I mean no medical stuff are able
to to go to the facilities we are not
able to function at all this is what I
can say I mean doors Z borders we are
not able to function at all our
activities in Gaza in this kind of
situation is there any hope left in Gaza
at this point in
time I mean there is a I mean people are
shocked people are shocked with this
uh aggressive uh retaliation I mean uh
bombing everywhere uh collateral damage
is all of the all all of the victims now
what you see in the hospitals more than
60% are children and women I mean people
are are shocked just to say shocked and
they have no hope they don't know what
is the next scenario is today they are
asked to move from the north of Gaza and
Gaza City to the South tomorrow they're
expecting that they will
move okay thank you um for that that is
Muhammad Abu mugas Deputy medical
coordinator with Doctors Without Borders
speaking to us from inside Gaza